<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Diligent Bugs of Kook Bog</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css" />
</head>

<body id="ch6" class="chapter">
  <p>
  	The
  toad took to Theo. The day after the celebration he had taken it out
  to Gurwell's field (which now sported a rather embarrassing haircut)
  and tried to let it go. But the toad did not go. It sat on the ground
  and stared at Theo. When he turned to go, the toad hopped after him.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Are you going to follow me
  all the way home?” he asked. Of course, the toad did not answer,
  but follow him home is exactly what it did.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Fine then,” said Theo.
  </p>
  <p>
  	He named the toad Buford.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Over the next few days, it
  became clear that for someone whose work involved precisely
  controlling the behavior of hundreds of thousands of insects, a toad
  could be a troublesome pet. Theo's first attempt at getting back to
  his experiments was a disaster. Buford's lightning fast tongue
  snapped up half a box of gnats before Theo even knew what was
  happening. It took Theo the better part of the next day out in the
  fields to replenish his supply.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Eventually, Theo built a
  special wooden pen on the windowsill for Buford. He concocted a
  mixture of cultured fungus and fly pheromone to lure a steady supply
  of bluebottles into the pen without affecting his own work. With
  Buford satisfied Theo could get back to the business of creating his
  mechanical companion.</p>
  <p>
  	Theo's creation was making
  great progress indeed. It now had a full torso, two arms, and two
  legs, and the basis of a head. The body was a jury-rigged hodgepodge
  of spare parts and cast-off, tarnished widgets; it was no work of
  art, but it was functional. The head was a dense cluster of gears and
  clockwork movements that transformed into tangled, writhing explosion
  of insects and tethers when the bugs were activated.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo observed his creation. It
  lay across his desk, its shoulders and head propped up against the
  wall. Its extremities twitched and its body wriggled slightly as the
  bugs danced in and around it. They danced in clusters and streams,
  culminating in a swarming, orbiting mass around the head.</p>
  <p>
  	The automaton was working. But
  was it responsive?
  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo lunged forward and thrust
  his outstretched hands in the direction of the head. The whole body
  jerked as if by reflex, its arms stiffening symmetrically. His test
  was successful!
  </p>
  <p>
  	A smile crept across Theo's
  face. He'd done it! The parts were working together!  It wouldn't be
  much longer now. From here on it was just a matter of adjusting
  chemical levels and refining the low-level training processes. After
  that, if Theo's assumptions were correct, emergent behavior should
  become automatic. His creation would take on a life of its own. The
  companion he'd imagined for so long would become real.
  </p>
  <p>
  	That head was a bit of a
  problem.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“You're going to have a hard
  time looking like that,” he said glumly. “You'll scare everybody
  off.”</p>
  <p>
  	Of course, the important thing
  was what was inside. But the outside was important too, thought Theo.
  His creation needed a face.
  </p>
  <p >
  ❉</p>
  <p>
  	In the warm mid-morning sun,
  Cynthia and Valerie Digniggleby walked along the tidy cobblestones
  past the boutiques and pastry shops of Mossville's most exclusive
  shopping street. Cynthia wore a fuschia and gold ensemble that
  involved feathers in a way that was not immediately clear to the
  casual observer. Valerie was dressed in a prim lavender and gray
  outfit with ankle-high gray suede lace-up boots. She held her worn
  cloth doll.</p>
  <p>
  	“What about a tiara?” said
  Cynthia. “Tiaras are nice for special occasions. A tasteful one.
  Just until you're old enough for earrings.”</p>
  <p>
  	“I don't want a tiara,”
  said Valerie.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Well,” said her mother
  petulantly. “You're not the one who buys your clothes, now, are
  you?”</p>
  <p>
  	“I'm the one who wears
  them,” said Valerie.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Cynthia's eyes rolled upward
  then circled around to fall on Valerie's doll.</p>
  <p>
  	“And <em>that</em>
  old thing,” she said, “has got to go!”</p>
  <p >
  	With that, she snatched
  Valerie's doll and tossed it in a nearby garbage can as they passed.
  Valerie's eyes went wide and her mouth fell open.
  </p>
  <p >
  	“We'll get you a better
  one!” said Cynthia.</p>
  <p>
  	Cynthia
  took Valerie's hand before Valerie could say a word and led her into
  a shop whose front window was painted with a sign reading <em>M.Routin's
  Finer Baubles and Playthings for Today's Well-Mannered Child</em>.

  </p>
  <p >
  	The two stood before a huge
  wall of baby dolls of all shapes and sizes. There were dolls made of
  cloth, wood, porcelain, plaster, and glass. They were dressed in all
  manner of clothing. Cynthia's eyes lit on a large doll with a
  graceful porcelain head and a bright yellow frilly dress. On the
  stand in front of the doll was a wooden plaque which read “BEA”.
  </p>
  <p >
  	“Oh!” cried Cynthia.
  “She's adorable!”</p>
  <p >
  	“What kind of a name is
  Bea?” said Valerie.</p>
  <p >
  	“It's a perfectly good
  name,” said Cynthia. “Your father's aunt was named Beatrice.”</p>
  <p >
  	“The seamstress?” said
  Valerie.</p>
  <p >
  	“Seamstress to royalty,
  sweetheart,” corrected Cynthia.</p>
  <p >
  	“Dad never mentioned the
  royalty part,” said Valerie.</p>
  <p >
  	“He's forgetful,” said
  Cynthia.</p>
  <p >
  	Moments later the two emerged.
  Valerie held the doll and looked at it ambivalently.
  </p>
  <p >
  	“Well, the doll's an
  improvement, but look at you now!” said Cynthia. “The yellow
  doesn't go with your frock at all. Come along before too many people
  see you!”</p>
  <p >
  	Valerie looked over her
  shoulder at the garbage can. Her mother clutched her hand and pulled
  her down the street.
  </p>
  <p >
  ❉</p>
  <p>
  	There
  was something for everyone in the bustling city center of Mossville.
  For Theo, trips to the city were an exciting glimpse at a world he
  was never quite part of. It was a tantalizing world full of action
  and camaraderie, where even the grocers and street vendors seemed to
  collude in unseen schemes and hijinks.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Rudy, for his part, had never
  taken the slightest interest in Mossville's social dramas. Any
  excitement Rudy had ever felt towards the commotion of the city
  center had long since dwindled to mere annoyance. For Rudy, the city
  center offered <em>parts</em>.
  And services, sometimes. But mostly parts.
  </p>
  <p>
  	As he always did in the city,
  Rudy walked slowly, almost furtively, with a slight hunch. He glanced
  frequently from side to side. Crowds made him nervous.</p>
  <p>
  	Theo followed alongside,
  eagerly taking in the sights and sounds. He stopped in front of a wig
  shop and stared for a long moment at a bald mannequin head. He pursed
  his lips. It wasn't quite right. He ran to catch up with his father.
  </p>
  <p>
  	They arrived at a ramshackle
  wooden storefront with a hand painted sign reading <em>FIONN'S
  HARDWARE</em>. Below the
  name of the shop the words <em>PARTS</em>,
  <em>CONSTRUCTION</em>,
  <em>SCREWS AND NAILS</em>,
  <em>HOBBY SHOP</em>,
  <em>DIY</em>,
  <em>GASKETS &amp; HOSE</em>,
  and <em>ONE-STOP</em>
  were written. Halved wooden barrels and old crates filled with
  assorted metal widgets were stacked in front of the shop.</p>
  <p>
  	“Behave,” said Rudy.</p>
  <p>
  	Theo looked hurt.</p>
  <p>
  	“What? I'm not gonna do
  anything bad!” he said.</p>
  <p>
  	Rudy paused a moment in front
  of the shop. He straightened up, sniffled purposefully, and walked
  into the store.</p>
  <p>
  	Fionn's Hardware store was
  dilapidated but very well stocked. Racks and boxes of parts and tools
  were stacked to the ceiling in all directions. Rudy approached the
  counter while Theo wandered into the maze of hardware, transported
  into a world of infinite possibilities.</p>
  <p>
  	The clerk was a sandy-haired
  man with overalls and a gray painters cap.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Help you?” said the
  clerk.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Rudy mustered his social
  skills and answered as gracefully as he could.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Sprockets,” he said.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Excuse me?” said the
  clerk.</p>
  <p>
  	“I'm looking for sprockets,”
  said Rudy.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Got those,” said the
  clerk. “What do you need? Plate? Bossed? Simplex? Duplex? Shear
  pin? Bored to size? Mud relief? Idler?”</p>
  <p>
  	“Plate,” said Rudy.</p>
  <p>
  	“Size?” asked the clerk.</p>
  <p>
  	“Two and a quarter inch,”
  said Rudy.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Sorry, plate sprockets
  don't come in two and a quarter. There's two and there's two and a
  half,” said the clerk.</p>
  <p>
  	“Yes, they do,” said Rudy.

  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo wandered the among the
  shelves and pallets of the shop. A pair of black rubber gloves caught
  his eye and he studied them approvingly. He found himself near the
  front window of the store.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Outside Valerie Digniggleby
  passed in front of the shop with her mother. Theo scowled to himself.
  It was better to just ignore people like them, he thought bitterly.
  He started to turn back to find his father.</p>
  <p>
  	Something in Valerie's arms
  caught his eye. It was a <em>face</em>,
  and in a split second Theo knew that it was just what he needed.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Valerie disappeared from the
  view of the cluttered hardware store window. Theo scrambled between
  two shelves to another window and caught sight of her again, but the
  yellow bundle in her arms was hidden by the crowd.
  </p>
  <p>
  	At the counter, Rudy was doing
  his best to remain courteous.</p>
  <p>
  	“I know what kind of
  sprockets I need,” he said.</p>
  <p>
  	“Well, sir,” said the
  clerk, “I can only say that plate sprockets have not been
  manufactured in two and a quarter inch size since——”</p>
  <p>
  	But Rudy's response would not
  be contained.</p>
  <p>
  	“DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHAT I
  AM BUILDING?!” he exploded. “DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHAT A BOON IT
  WILL BE TO MOSSVILLE? TO MANKIND?!”</p>
  <p>
  	The clerk looked as though he
  had caught a small and highly localized pocket of windy weather
  directly in the face. He blinked a few times when the squall had
  passed.</p>
  <p>
  	“Sir, I am sure that I do
  not,” he said.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“People!” scoffed Rudy and
  turned to leave.
  </p>
  <p>
  	He looked around the shop.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Theo?” he said.
  </p>
  <p >
  ❉</p>
  <p>
  	Stealth
  was not one of Theo's strong points. His hasty exit from the hardware
  store would surely have drawn his father's attention, if Rudy had not
  been so fully engaged in the sprocket conversation.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo trotted along the
  cobbles, keeping a few pedestrians between himself and the mother and
  daughter pair as he tailed them down the street. He could hear
  snippets of their conversation.</p>
  <p>
  	“It's a perfectly lovely
  doll,” said Cynthia.</p>
  <p>
  	“I liked my old one,”
  sniffed Valerie.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Suddenly Valerie stopped.</p>
  <p>
  	“I need to tie my shoe,”
  she said.
  </p>
  <p>
  	The pedestrians continued on
  their way around Valerie and her mother and Theo scrambled to find a
  place to hide. He ducked behind a narrow lamp post just a few feet
  behind Cynthia. As skinny as Theo was, the lamp post was much
  thinner, and he felt quite ridiculous trying to hide behind it. He
  prayed neither of the Dignigglebys happened to glance his way.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Could you hold it?” said
  Valerie to her mother. Seeing her mother's dismayed expression she
  corrected herself. “Could you hold <em>her</em>?”.</p>
  <p>
  	Cynthia took the doll as
  Valerie knelt in the middle of the sidewalk to tie the laces of her
  boot. At last Theo could get a good look at the doll.
  </p>
  <p>
  	It was perfect.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Not the doll itself, of
  course. The doll itself was just a stupid girl's toy. The dress, the
  little baby body, the stupid bonnet, those were useless to him. But
  the head. The head was perfect. It was just the right shape. Surely
  it was hollow and rigid enough to make adjustments to if necessary.
  The contours of the porcelain appealed to him. Maybe the red lips
  were a bit much, but otherwise, it was definitely something he could
  work with.
  </p>
  <p>
  	But how could he ever get
  Valerie to give it to him? He couldn't just walk up and ask for her
  new doll's head. He thought about it. Was there something he could
  offer to trade? That seemed unlikely. What did he have that someone
  like her could possibly want? The truth was, he didn't have much.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Buford wriggled in his pocket.

  </p>
  <p>
  	“Thanks for the offer, but I
  don't think Valerie Digniggleby wants a pet toad,” said Theo
  softly.
  </p>
  <p>
  	But being traded off for the
  doll head was apparently not what Buford had in mind. He had simply
  decided, for reasons conceivable only to his own toad brain, that
  enough was enough of Theo's pocket. Before Theo knew what had
  happened, Buford leaped out of his pocket and directly onto Mrs.
  Digniggleby's chest.</p>
  <p>
  	What happened next seemed to
  unfold in slow motion for Theo. The time between the moment Mrs.
  Digniggleby felt a strange thump and the moment she was fully aware
  of a bumpy brown toad settled upon her bodice seemed much longer than
  just a second or two. When the realization finally hit, Mrs.
  Digniggleby flung her hands up in the air and shrieked so loudly that
  all the shoppers within earshot froze.</p>
  <p>
  	The doll sailed into the air.
  Theo watched it arc towards the cobblestones. The porcelain head
  would be smashed to bits. Without thinking, Theo lunged for the doll
  and caught it only inches from the stones.  	</p>
  <p>
  	Mrs. Digniggleby continued to
  scream and stomp and flail around well after Buford had hopped away.
  Valerie, still tying her shoe, looked over her shoulder to see what
  the commotion was all about.</p>
  <p>
  	Mrs. Digniggleby's eyes fell
  on Theo, who was standing dumbly with the baby doll in his arms. All
  at once, she stopped her flailing.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“You!” she shouted.</p>
  <p>
  	Theo's eyes widened as he met
  Mrs. Digniggleby's gaze. His mind raced. Valerie twisted herself
  awkwardly to see what was going on.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“THIEF!” shouted Mrs.
  Digniggleby.</p>
  <p>
  	A dozen thoughts ran through
  Theo's mind at once. Valerie didn't want the doll anyway. She'd just
  <em>said </em>as
  much. It was only
  going to waste with these people. He, on the other hand, could put it
  to good use. He needed it. His creation needed it.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Mrs. Digniggleby was already
  calling him a thief, even though he'd done nothing wrong. She'd have
  him arrested either way if he let her. There was nothing to do but to
  run away, and he wasn't about to just drop the doll and let it
  shatter on the street. The passersby had begun to close in on him. He
  knew how it looked.</p>
  <p>
  	“Don't let him get away!”
  shouted Mrs. Digniggleby.
  </p>
  <p>
  	There wasn't time to think it
  through any further. Theo cradled the doll in his arm and took off
  through the crowd. He disappeared around a corner into the maze of
  alleys just as Valerie finished tying her shoe.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Cynthia Digniggleby's
  hysterics descended into incomprehensible blubbering as she commanded
  passersby to catch the thief and fetch the police. Valerie stood
  quietly with her hands on her hips, staring with steely anger in the
  direction Theo had run.
  </p>
  <p>
  	On a gray cobblestone,
  blissfully unaware of the commotion around it, sat Buford. He hopped
  once and disappeared around the corner after Theo. Valerie's eyes
  narrowed as she watched the toad go.
  </p>


</body>
</html>
