<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Diligent Bugs of Kook Bog</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css" />
</head>

<body id="ch10" class="chapter">
  <p>
  	Constable
  Fleabo and Deputy Deepak of the Mossville Police Department stood at
  the front door.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Promovendis!” barked
  Constable Fleabo. “Police! We've got a warrant to search these
  premises! If you don't grant us admission to this house by your own
  voluntary free will we will be compelled to break down this door!”</p>
  <p>
  	“Maybe we should try the
  door first,” said Deputy Deepak.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“No need to be hasty,
  deputy,” said Constable Fleabo.
  </p>
  <p>
  	He shouted again the door.</p>
  <p>
  	“Promovendis!” he said.
  “This is the police! Your failure to grant us admission will leave
  us with no alternative but to forcefully enter these premises! I am
  legally obligated to inform you furthermore that any and all costs
  incurred therewith in the damage of property or person will be the
  sole responsibility of the property owner!”</p>
  <p>
  	The two waited. There was no
  answer.</p>
  <p>
  	“Promovendis!” called
  Constable Fleabo again. “Having duly warned you in advance it is
  now my duty to inform you that forceful entry to the premises will
  commence forthwith!”
  </p>
  <p>
  	Constable Fleabo heaved back
  and prepared to kick the door in with all his force. He took a deep
  breath.</p>
  <p>
  	Deputy Deepak raised a finger
  and gestured for Constable Fleabo to wait. With an apologetic shrug
  he reached forward and tried the doorknob.
  </p>
  <p>
  	The door opened.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Constable Fleabo grunted
  appreciatively. He straightened up, patted his uniform, and entered
  the house. Deputy Deepak followed dutifully.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo listened from the hiding
  place up the hill. It had been a mad dash to grab his
  project——pollens, instruments, bugs, and all——in time to duck
  out the back door before the policemen came in. Who knew what kind of
  damage they might do. Of course, the incriminating doll head had been
  his top priority.
  </p>
  <p>
  	He stayed where he was even
  after the police had gone.  They'd be back without a doubt. The next
  time he might not be so lucky to see them in time. He decided to stay
  in the hiding place until his father came home.
  </p>
  <p>
  	In the mean time, he had what
  he needed to affix the head. He activated his creation and observed
  the bugs settle into their labyrinthine patterns. The automaton
  wriggled contentedly.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Night fell, and Rudy did not
  return. He must be out researching nocturnal insects, thought Theo.
  Or maybe he was collecting fireflies or bioluminescent fungi from the
  meadow lands west of Mossville, which were much easier to find in the
  dark. There were plenty of good reasons why Rudy might be out at
  night. It wasn't like his father to leave for so long without telling
  him, but Theo knew Rudy could be absentminded about other things when
  he focused on his work.
  </p>
  <p>
  	All the same, Theo became
  increasingly uneasy as the night wore on. At some point he fell
  asleep, but when he woke in the morning with his face in the leaves
  he did not feel rested at all.
  </p>
  <p >
  ❉</p>
  <p>
  	Theo peeked through the window
  of Fionn's Hardware. He wondered why he had bothered to come. Of
  course his father hadn't spent a day and a half in the hardware
  store. He thought of asking the shopkeeper, but decided it was too
  risky to be seen.</p>
  <p>
  	The city center was a
  dangerous maze. There seemed to be more policemen out than usual. He
  thought he caught a glimpse of Deputy Deepak talking to an elderly
  lady in front of a bakery.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo kept himself concealed
  among the shoppers and peeked around corners before crossing streets.
  Caution slowed him down as he tried to get to all the places he
  thought of where his father might have been.
  </p>
  <p>
  	But there was no sign of Rudy
  at the hardware store, or the craft shop, or the butcher shop where
  he occasionally stopped for sausages. There was no sign of him at the
  barber shop, which he visited once every blue moon when his hair
  became unwieldy. Theo peeked in at the tailor where his father had
  bought a vest and trousers two years previously, but without much
  optimism. Rudy didn't often shop for clothes. Theo checked a
  locksmith, a watch repair shop, and a cobbler shop but saw no trace
  of his father. The search felt increasingly futile. There wasn't much
  else his father did in town.
  </p>
  <p>
  	A flier posted over the wooden
  cobbler shop signboard caught Theo's attention. A public announcement
  of an extraordinary new invention was to take place today at two
  o'clock in the main square. He looked up at a nearby street clock. It
  was nearly two now. His curiosity piqued, Theo made his way to the
  square.</p>
  <p>
  	A small stage was set up in
  the town square not far from the base of the Suction-Flux Hydro
  Debogilator. Upon the stage an object draped in a white cloth stood
  atop a table. A crowd had gathered of mostly casual onlookers taking
  a moment from shopping or returning to work from an extended lunch.
  Ballhatchet and Dooley stood in front of the stage. Constable Fleabo
  and Deputy Deepak stood off to the side observing the crowd.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo watched from a doorway in
  a nearby alley. He was well hidden, but his view was obscured. The
  center of the stage was concealed by a cluster of scaffolding. He
  could see the table, but he could not see the object on top of it. He
  could only see a small corner of the crowd.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Among the passersby Theo could
  not see were Valerie Digniggleby and her mother, who were once again
  out shopping for clothes. They had just finished having cupcakes at a
  pastry shop on the square. They were just around the corner from
  where Theo hid when the announcement began.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Mr. Cess appeared on the stage
  in front of a bulky microphone.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Ladies and Gentlemen!” he
  said. “Welcome to a most extraordinary demonstration! What I am
  about to show you is a result of years of painstaking effort and
  studious research. The creation I will unveil to you represents a
  turning point in mankind's history, at which man has finally truly
  mastered the beasts and harnessed the power of nature to do his
  bidding!”</p>
  <p>
  	A hush came over the crowd.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“I give to you...”
  continued Cess, dramatically yanking the cloth covering away from the
  object on the platform. “The Insect-Powered Engine!”</p>
  <p>
  	Theo's eyes widened. What
  could this possibly mean?</p>
  <p>
  	The rest of the crowd reacted
  much less excitedly. In fact, there was not much reaction at all.
  People looked at each other with puzzled expressions.</p>
  <p>
  	“An engine that is powered
  by insects,” emphasized Mr. Cess.
  </p>
  <p>
  	A decidedly nonplussed-looking
  gentleman standing directly in front of the stage spoke up.</p>
  <p>
  	“What, bugs?” he said.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Yes,” said Mr. Cess.</p>
  <p>
  	“What, like, dead ones?”
  said the gentleman.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Mr. Cess spoke directly to the
  gentleman, out of range of the microphone.</p>
  <p>
  	“No, live ones,” he said.
  </p>
  <p>
  	He returned to the microphone
  and continued. 	“Ladies and Gentlemen,” he said. “A
  demonstration!”</p>
  <p>
  	Theo simply had to see this.
  He crept out of the doorway to the end of the alley. The scaffolding
  was still hiding the device. He made sure Constable Fleabo and Deputy
  Deepak weren't looking and he ducked into the crowd. He made his way
  towards the stage.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Cynthia Digniggleby had seen
  enough. She took Valerie by the hand.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Come,” she said. “We do
  not want to be party to any nonsense with insects.”</p>
  <p>
  	“But——” protested
  Valerie.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Quickly, Honey,” said
  Cynthia. “He's going to do something disgusting.”</p>
  <p>
  	Cess produced a jar of deep
  pink fluid, several bottles of powders, and a sheet of folded paper.
  He unfolded the paper and studied it while setting up the machine.
  With a metal spoon he placed several spoonfulls of flax-colored
  powder into a hopper at the top. Ballhatchet carried a large bellows
  and set it on a tripod in the front of the stage. He attached a broad
  metal pan. Dooley began to pour the pink fluid into the pan.
  </p>
  <p>
  	If Theo had been shocked
  before, he was doubly shocked now. The device had been crudely and
  hastily assembled, but it was his father's invention without a doubt.
  If that wasn't enough in itself to make him forget to stay hidden,
  then the quantity of attractant that Dooley was pouring onto the pan
  certainly was.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“What's he <em>doing</em>?”
  Theo said aloud to no-one. He squirmed past the elbows of the people
  around him to get a better look.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Cess gave a nod, and
  Ballhatchet brought his weight down on the bellows, sending a huge
  pink cloud of attractant into the air over the square.</p>
  <p>
  	“NO!” exclaimed Theo.
  “It's too much!”</p>
  <p>
  	Theo regretted it as soon as
  the words left his mouth. Cess turned towards him suddenly, bumping
  the jar of pink fluid which crashed to the stage. A ripple went
  through the crowd and all eyes turned to Theo. Ballhatchet and Dooley
  assumed Kung-Fu positions on the stage.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Constable Fleabo sprang into
  action.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Hey, you!” shouted
  Constable Fleabo. He started after Theo, who dove back into the
  crowd.</p>
  <p>
  	Over the ridge beyond the
  valley, a dark cloud began to rise.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Cynthia dragged Valerie away
  quickly, an expression of disgust on her face. Valerie craned her
  neck to see over her shoulder, fascinated by the mayhem.</p>
  <p>
  	Constable Fleabo and Deputy
  Deepak gave pursuit through the crowd, losing sight of Theo as he
  submerged and scrambled among the legs of the onlookers, then
  catching sight of him again as he popped up elsewhere to get his
  bearings.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Ballhatchet! Dooley!”
  called Cess. “Help the officers!”</p>
  <p>
  	Ballhatchet and Dooley waded
  into the confused crowd. Theo ducked and covered his head to avoid
  being trampled.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Theo spotted an opening among
  the legs. It was a clear shot to the alleyway leading out of the
  square. He dashed towards it.
  </p>
  <p>
  	It was too late. Ballhatchet's
  huge hand grabbed his collar and raised him above the heads of the
  crowd. Theo's legs ran helplessly in the air.</p>
  <p>
  	“Got him!” hollered
  Ballhatchet proudly.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Constable Fleabo hurried to
  Ballhatchet's side, out of breath and panting.
  </p>
  <p>
  	A buzzing sound had become
  audible. If it hadn't been for the commotion, someone would surely
  have noticed the sky had also darkened appreciably.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“You, my boy, are under
  arrest!” declared Constable Fleabo. “Deputy Deepak, handcuff this
  scofflaw!”</p>
  <p>
  	Deputy Deepak raised the
  cuffs.</p>
  <p>
  	“That's my dad's invention!”
  shouted Theo.</p>
  <p>
  	“Sit still there a minute,
  son,” said Deputy Deepak. “I don't want to pinch you.”</p>
  <p>
  	Deputy Deepak snapped one cuff
  onto Theo's left wrist.</p>
  <p>
  	The buzzing grew into a roar.
  </p>
  <p>
  	“Huh?” said Deputy Deepak,
  looking up.</p>
  <p>
  	A massive, black swarm of
  insects almost as big as the city center itself slammed the town
  square with such force the ground shook.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Sheer chaos erupted. Most of
  the onlookers had been knocked clear off their feet and now scrambled
  on the ground to escape the onslaught of bugs. People ran blindly,
  reeling and spitting bugs from their mouths and batting at the bugs
  in their eyes.
  </p>
  <p>
  	For
  a moment, Theo was as overwhelmed as anybody else, but he came to his
  senses quickly. He groped around in his satchel for a few seconds
  then pulled out a canister of white powder. He popped off the lid and
  shook the contents out in front of himself. The bugs parted before
  him, creating a shifting, wobbling corridor in the wake of the
  powder. He shook the powder out as he went, making his way slowly out
  of the swarm. Once clear, he broke into a run and disappeared down
  the alley without looking up.</p>
  <p>
  	Valerie saw him go. She had
  recognized him when Ballhatchet had held him up, and her impulses
  could no longer be contained. She pulled free of her mother's hand
  and raced into the alley after Theo.
  </p>
  <p>
  	Cynthia turned in time to see
  her disappear around the corner.</p>
  <p>
  	“Valerie!” she shrieked,
  just before being engulfed in a cloud of bugs.
  </p>


</body>
</html>
