<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Diligent Bugs of Kook Bog</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css" />
</head>

<body id="TOC">

	<h1>Contents</h1>
	<ul>
		<li>
			<a href="4-chap-open1.xhtml">Chapter 1. The Day the Ground Gave Way</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="6-chap-open2.xhtml">Chapter 2. The Nobel Gnat Lends a Hand</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="8-chap-open3.xhtml">Chapter 3. The Charge of the Marvelous Bug-Driven Harvester</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="10-chap-open4.xhtml">Chapter 4. The Importance of Mayor Digniggleby</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="12-chap-open5.xhtml">Chapter 5. Business at the Patent Office</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="14-chap-open6.xhtml">Chapter 6. The Accidental Abduction of Baby Doll Bea</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="16-chap-open7.xhtml">Chapter 7. The Questionable Accomplishments of Mr. Horace E. Cess</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="18-chap-open8.xhtml">Chapter 8. The Suction-Flux Hydro-Debogilator and the Unsung Savior of Mossville</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="20-chap-open9.xhtml">Chapter 9. The Inventing of an Inventor</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="22-chap-open10.xhtml">Chapter 10. An Overwhelming Display</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="24-chap-open11.xhtml">Chapter 11. The Bug Baby Revealed</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="26-chap-open12.xhtml">Chapter 12. Of Vigilant Minions and Clerical Discontent</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="28-chap-open13.xhtml">Chapter 13. Searchers and Finders</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="30-chap-open14.xhtml">Chapter 14. The Catastrophic Consequences of Snacking on Duty</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="32-chap-open15.xhtml">Chapter 15. An Unceremonious Resolution to the Question of Custody</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="34-chap-open16.xhtml">Chapter 16. Theo's Travails in the Land of the Kooks</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="36-chap-open17.xhtml">Chapter 17. The Bug Field Engineer</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="38-chap-open18.xhtml">Chapter 18. Further Into the Muck</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="40-chap-open19.xhtml">Chapter 19. The Patent Administrator's Troubling Ward</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="12-chap-open5.xhtml">Chapter 20. A Fruitless Consultation and an Unexpected Reprieve</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="12-chap-open5.xhtml">Chapter 21. The Dawn of a New Era in Labor-Saving Automata</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="12-chap-open5.xhtml">Chapter 22. A Well-Intentioned Confession and a Forceful Response</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="12-chap-open5.xhtml">Chapter 23. Of Choosing Sides and Paying the Cost</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="12-chap-open5.xhtml">Chapter 24. The Bugs and Their Business</a>
		</li>
		<li>
			<a href="12-chap-open5.xhtml">Chapter 25. A New Morning for Stationery and Soap</a>
		</li>
	</ul>

</body>
</html>
