<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Diligent Bugs of Kook Bog</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css" />
</head>

<body id="ch3" class="chapter">
	<p>
		The shelter was located in a
	well-concealed patch of unincorporated Greater Mossville County about
	100 yards up the thickly wooded hill from the Promovendis' house. It
	had begun as nothing more than a small clearing set away from the
	road and surrounded by foliage, but Rudy had worked hard to create a
	haven for his project, with no small measure of assistance from his
	able-bodied son.</p>
	<p>
		The shelter was about five
	feet high and built from branches and leaves, with a U-shaped
	foundation of dirt and stones. It was effective both as camouflage
	and at protecting its contents from the worst of the elements.
	Looking from the nearby road nobody would have imagined there might
	be anything there besides woods. But hidden in the shelter was a
	great deal more indeed.
	</p>
	<p>
		By the time Theo arrived, Rudy
	had already pulled away most of the shelter. A large, strangely
	shaped object lay in the clearing about six feet wide, ten feet long,
	and nearly the height of the shelter itself. The object was entirely
	wrapped in canvas and oilcloth tarps and bound with ropes.
	</p>
	<p>
		“I don't see why you don't
	just keep it in the shed,” said Theo.</p>
	<p>
		“When the patent comes
	though, I'll be able to keep it right out in the open for all to
	see,” said Rudy. “And boy, will they be happy to see it! In the
	meantime though——hand me that rope will you?”</p>
	<p>
		Rudy slid two long wooden
	poles under the object and lashed them in place.</p>
	<p>
		“The amount of work this
	will save people,” Rudy began. “That's the important thing, son!
	To give people something they can use!”</p>
	<p>
		Theo looked skeptically at his
	father.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Mark my words son,” said
	Rudy. “You do that, and you'll never be lonely!”</p>
	<p>
		“I'm not lonely anyway,”
	said Theo.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy smiled at Theo. There was
	a trace of sadness in his smile.
	</p>
	<p>
		“We've got to get this to
	Gurwell's field before it gets dark,” he said. “You get in back.”</p>
	<p>
		Theo took his place at the
	rear of the object. They both bent down and grasped the poles.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Heave ho!” cried Rudy.
	They lifted the object with all of their strength.</p>
	<p>
		It was all they could do to
	keep the burden off the ground as they hauled it out of the woods and
	down the road. Rudy led the way, gripping a pole in each fist and
	straining forward so hard that his shoulders seemed to disappear
	altogether. Theo quickly gave up on one of the poles. He put all his
	effort into shouldering the other while leaving the first pole to
	plow a deep rut into the dirt of the road. The pair advanced
	haltingly towards the broad hillside field a mile and a half down the
	road.</p>
	<p>
		In addition to the
	tarp-covered object they bore between them, Rudy and Theo each
	carried baggage of their own. Rudy wore a high, top-heavy rucksack
	piled high with pouches, boxes, and shelves. Brightly colored bottles
	dangled from hooks on the pack frame.</p>
	<p>
		Theo carried a worn leather
	shoulder bag covered with pockets and pouches. It bumped awkwardly
	against his knees with every step he took.
	</p>
	<p>
		“I'm dying!” Theo cried.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Legs bent, back straight!”
	Rudy called back between clenched teeth. The veins of his neck bulged
	like sausages. “You'll be fine!”</p>
	<p>
		Theo could only grunt in
	reply.
	</p>
	<p>
		At last, Rudy and Theo came to
	the spot where the road split. One fork switched back and lead
	further down the hill——eventually to the town of Mossville
	proper——and the other disappeared into a broad, gently-sloping
	field of barley. The far edge of the field ended abruptly at a cliff.
	Far beyond could be seen the jagged ridge of a deep ravine, hazy in
	the distance.
	</p>
	<p>
		The late afternoon sky was
	just beginning to turn pink and the sun cast a warm golden glow over
	the field.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo spun around dramatically
	and collapsed onto his back in the tall green barley.
	</p>
	<p>
		“I'm dead!” he gasped.</p>
	<p>
		Rudy had already begun untying
	the cords. He tossed the tarps aside to reveal the harvester.
	</p>
	<p>
		By the standards of such
	machines, it was very small, making the revolving reaper apparatus at
	its front look outsized and all the more menacing. Rows of shiny
	blades meshed with each other like a system of gears.
	</p>
	<p>
		The rest of the machine was no
	less remarkable. At first glance, it looked like a heap of junk
	bristling with shafts, hoses, and pipes. Tangled tufts of wiring
	peeked out from every cranny, and the surface of the machine was
	covered with platforms and hinges that looked like a catastrophic
	collision of clarinets.</p>
	<p>
		But there was nothing
	haphazard about Rudy's creation.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo turned his head from
	where he lay in the barley. He eyed his father's machine. The
	mechanisms were all familiar. Theo knew much more than his father
	realized about the workings of the machine.
	</p>
	<p>
		Nevertheless, it was
	impressive. It was the industrial-strength big sibling of Theo's own
	creations.
	</p>
	<p>
		“You gonna come back to life
	and give me a hand?” called Rudy.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy wedged one of the poles
	under the contraption and over a large rock to form a lever. Theo
	climbed to his feet.</p>
	<p>
		“I'll lift,” said Rudy.
	“You get the legs out.”</p>
	<p>
		Rudy bore down on the lever
	and the mountain of machinery lifted enough for Theo to reach beneath
	it. He crawled down and withdrew a heavy segmented appendage that had
	been folded under the machine. There were three of these on each side
	of the machine. Rudy and Theo extracted them one by one. When they
	finished, Theo set about untangling a mess of hydraulic hoses and
	connecting them to the legs. Rudy affixed a huge, balloon-shaped
	canvas bag to a metal ring at the back end of the machine. When it
	was all assembled the machine looked very much like an enormous
	mechanical tick.
	</p>
	<p>
		A large crow landed on a
	branch of a nearby tree. It eyed the father and son and their
	peculiar contraption curiously.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy stepped back from the
	harvester and sniffed the air. It was time to prime the device.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy rummaged through his pack
	and withdrew a small stack of very thin hinged boards bundled with
	canvas straps. He unfolded the boards to form a handy wearable
	workbench. Theo helped him get his shoulders through the straps and
	buckle himself in. The workbench was composed of a tabletop that
	extended all the way around his midsection. From the tabletop
	extended vertical supports which held three columns of shelves and
	pigeonholes, an angled writing surface and inkwell, a vice grip, and
	a collection of adjustable mechanical arms. The arms supported
	variously-sized clamps, clips and cup-holders. Like with his
	backpack, the precarious appearance of the wearable workbench belied
	its sturdiness and reliability.
	</p>
	<p>
		With Theo's help, Rudy stocked
	the clips and clamps of the workbench with jars and canisters from
	his pack. Theo handed them to Rudy one by one: lyophilized royal
	jelly powder, ground tetrastigma root resin, mealybug honeydew,
	extract of Karner Blue butterfly mating pheromone.
	</p>
	<p>
		“You gonna do the whole
	field?” asked Theo.</p>
	<p>
		“As much as we can get to,”
	said Rudy.</p>
	<p>
		“Don't you think you should
	tell Mr. Gurwell first?”</p>
	<p>
		Rudy shook his head and waved
	his hand dismissively.
	</p>
	<p>
		“He'll be glad to have it
	done!” he said. “Who wouldn't? Now, set up the bellows while I
	prime this fella.”</p>
	<p>
		Theo looked out over the
	field. He turned to his father's rucksack to find a large wood and
	leather bellows, a wooden tripod, and a broad iron pan. He set the
	bellows up so its nozzle was supported by the tripod and then affixed
	the pan to the nozzle.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy's wearable workbench was
	fully stocked with gels, fluids, and powders. He climbed onto the
	machine and got to work priming it. He worked quickly. He dusted the
	platforms on the back of the machine with pollens and pheromone
	powders. He filled up hoppers and basins with variously colored
	fluids. At last, he produced a large vial of glistening, deep pink
	leonore extract and poured it into the flanged brass pipe-ends
	protruding from the machine. The leonore extract flowed into the
	workings of the machine, mingling with the other ingredients.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy jumped down and
	unstrapped his wearable workbench.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Get ready, son!”</p>
	<p>
		“Dad?”</p>
	<p>
		“One, two...”</p>
	<p>
		“Dad!” said Theo.
	</p>
	<p>
		“What is it?” said Rudy.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo held a bottle of whitish
	fluid.
	</p>
	<p>
		“What?”</p>
	<p>
		Theo looked up at his father.
	</p>
	<p>
		“It's just,” he hesitated,
	“this looks like it's starting to crystallize. That will, I mean,
	won't that be bad for the aphids?”</p>
	<p>
		Rudy knitted his brow and gave
	a puzzled smile.</p>
	<p>
		“Good boy!” he said.
	“Taking an interest!”</p>
	<p>
		“But——” Theo began,
	but his father cut him off.
	</p>
	<p>
		“The aphids will be fine!”
	shouted Rudy. He poured a cup of leonore extract into the pan affixed
	to the bellows. He bore down on the handle. The gusts of air turned
	slightly pink as they passed over the leonore.</p>
	<p>
		After five good, strong
	bursts, Rudy disconnected the pan and emptied the remainder of its
	contents into a hopper on the side of the harvester.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo watched the pale pink of
	the attractant disperse into the light breeze. All was quiet, save
	for the rustling barley. Theo and Rudy stood motionless in
	anticipation, Rudy tense and eager, Theo wincing with trepidation.
	For several long minutes, nothing happened.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy
	and Theo squinted into the distance far beyond the cliff edge of the
	field, beyond even the valley below. They stared intently in the
	direction of the hazy edge of the distant ravine. As they watched,
	something in the quality of the haze began to change.  Almost
	imperceptibly at first, but more distinctly with each passing moment,
	the haze began to darken. A black cloud was forming over the edge of
	the ravine.

	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy nodded.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Here
	we go,” he said. “Stand back.”

	</p>
	<p>
		The cloud continued to grow
	and darken. It extended upward over the valley. It rose slowly into
	the sky and began to arch towards them like a great blurry black
	rainbow.
	</p>
	<p>
		At first, the sound was
	scarcely distinguishable from the breeze over the field. In time it
	became a low hum, faint but clearly audible. The hum grew louder as
	the cloud spread overhead, darkening the sky.
	</p>
	<p>
		Now the cloud was close enough
	to distinguish it for what it was: a great, swarming mass of insects.
	They filled the sky now, describing a smeared parabola over the
	valley below.
	</p>
	<p>
		As many times as Theo had seen
	this process unfold, it always took his breath away when the bugs
	hit.
	</p>
	<p>
		The bugs hit now.
	</p>
	<p>
		In an instant, the hum grew to
	a deafening roar as the massive swarm impacted the ground like a
	meteor striking down. Rudy and Theo covered their faces and ducked
	instinctively, buffeted by the force of the swarm. All at once the
	machine was engulfed in a chaotic, buzzing blur.
	</p>
	<p>
		Seen from up close, the swarm
	of insects was not solid black at all. It was a dark, swirling mix of
	black, brown, and green, dotted and streaked with  red, purple,
	orange, and yellow. A glimpse of glowing blue-green phosphorus
	appeared in its depths. Here and there clusters of yellow sparks
	twinkled like stars in writhing, grainy nebulae.
	</p>
	<p>
		No sooner had the swarm
	crashed down upon the machine than the elaborate chemical
	preparations began to take effect. Like clockwork, the bugs began to
	separate and take their places in the workings of the harvester.
	Green aphids split into blurred streams and shot into the brass
	circulatory system of the machine. Clouds of gnats collected into
	crackling masses over banks of tiny switches. Moths and butterflies
	snapped themselves into harnesses to bring the mechanical hulk alive.

	</p>
	<p>
		And come alive it did.
	Switches clicked. Clutches caught. Cogs connected. The sound began as
	a chaotic clatter but soon sped to a smooth purr. The mechanical
	beast began to stir.
	</p>
	<p>
		Still waving stray midges and
	aphids from their eyes, Rudy and Theo stood back and watched the
	machine transform into something very much like a living creature. It
	rose slowly on its six legs. The twisting lattice of blades across
	its front rotated faster and faster. The blades glinted like a steely
	grin.
	</p>
	<p>
		At its full height, the back
	of the machine rose to almost ten feet in the air. The spinning
	blades stayed low and flush with the surface of the sloping field.
	The huge bag at the rear of the machine ballooned out as the first
	cuttings of barley flew. It began to walk. The pattern of its
	six-legged steps was identical to that of an insect. Slowly, the
	monstrous mechanical harvester advanced into the field, mowing into
	its first broad swath of barley.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy grinned and gave his son
	a thumbs up sign.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo pricked up his ears. For
	a moment, he wondered if he was being oversensitive. Something
	sounded amiss within the workings. It was a clatter or knock of some
	kind, barely audible. It could have been the transmission, or perhaps
	it was the rack-and-pinion system for leveling the blade. But
	something was clearly——</p>
	<p>
		“Dad!” called Theo, but it
	was no use to shout. Rudy was walking slowly backwards in front of
	the machine, as though coaxing it along. He was well out of earshot
	amid the deafening rumble of the machine. He seemed unaware of the
	increasingly erratic knocks emitting from the bowels of the machine.
	</p>
	<p>
		Suddenly, something went very
	wrong. With a thunderous crack, a burst of insects exploded from the
	center of the machine. The smooth circulatory motion of the aphids
	kicked into an insane pattern of jittery, jumping streaks. The
	machine shuddered and shook, momentarily stopping in its tracks.</p>
	<p>
		Rudy could see that something
	was wrong now. He reached into his jacket pocket and withdrew what
	appeared to be a perfume spritzer. He raised it towards the machine.</p>
	<p>
		“Dad, no!” cried Theo, but
	his voice could not rise above the din.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy squeezed the ball of the
	spritzer and sent a puff of clear fluid in the direction of the
	machine. But the effect was not what he expected. Rather than being
	calmed, the cloud of bugs grew even more wild and spread even further
	beyond the edges of the machine. Smears of color flew in jerks and
	spasms amid the knotted black and green swarms. The tethers driving
	the harvester twisted and tangled.
	</p>
	<p>
		The machine reared up and dove
	forward, its spinning blade plunging into the ground just inches from
	Rudy's feet. Rudy leaped away and began to run, firing off a few more
	spritzes of fluid in a panic.</p>
	<p>
		The large crow that had been
	watching the scene from the nearby tree took flight, but it did not
	fly far. A clump of hard earth shot up from the harvester's blade and
	struck it full in the breast. The crow's wings folded over its head
	and it dropped  like a stone.
	</p>
	<p>
		The machine pulled its blade
	from the ground and jolted forward. It charged after Rudy, who was
	now running away at full speed, knees high. He squirted the little
	spritzer helplessly over his shoulder.</p>
	<p>
		The machine moved in jerks and
	fits but its legs were long. In a few wobbly six-legged staggers it
	was nearly upon Rudy. Its deadly blades were a spinning helix of
	knives. It reared high in the air.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo tore into to his father's
	pack and flung its contents out willy-nilly in his haste. At last he
	found what he was looking for. He pulled out a jar of white powder.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy looked over his shoulder
	to get a better shot with the spritzer but the angle was awkward and
	he stumbled over his own feet, landing hard on his elbow. The
	harvester loomed above him, its madly whizzing blades poised to
	plunge down and slice him to ribbons. Rudy clenched his eyes shut.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo gripped the jar of
	powder. There was no time for measuring, no time for the bellows and
	pan. He lobbed the jar at the machine with all his might. It struck
	its target dead on. A puff of white emerged from the guts of the
	harvester.</p>
	<p>
		At once the aphids began to
	disperse. Soon the gnats and midges followed. In only moments all of
	the insects had loosened their grip on the machinery. The clouds of
	bugs blurred and thinned. Green streams eddied and dissipated. Moths
	and butterflies released themselves from their harnesses and
	fluttered away. The machinery spun down and the limbs of the beast
	went lax. Rudy pulled himself out of the way just as the blade of the
	harvester collapsed into the ground.
	</p>
	<p>
		The bugs had abandoned the
	machine. They flew into the air over the field and the valley below.
	Clumps of insects still buzzed and small, patchy rabbles hung in the
	air over the barley. A figure eight of green aphids rose into the
	darkening sky, blurring at the edges.
	</p>
	<p>
		Theo ran to where Rudy lay on
	the ground.</p>
	<p>
		“Are you okay?” he asked.</p>
	<p>
		“Darn aphids!” said Rudy
	to himself. He paused, then looked at his son. “How did you know?”</p>
	<p>
		Theo shook his head.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Just a lucky guess,” he
	said.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy eyed Theo suspiciously.
	</p>
	<p>
		The sun had set, and the dark
	of the evening set in quickly. In the valley below, a barrage of
	brightly colored fireworks exploded over the town of Mossville.
	</p>
	<p>
		“You'd better get going,”
	said Rudy.</p>
	<p>
		“I can help you clean this
	stuff up,” said Theo.</p>
	<p>
		Rudy shook his head.
	</p>
	<p>
		“No,” he said. “Thank
	you. You've done enough for today. I'll take care of this stuff.”</p>
	<p>
		Theo nodded hesitantly, but
	his excitement for the festival was clear.</p>
	<p>
		“You sure you're okay?”</p>
	<p>
		“I'm fine!” said Rudy.
	“Now get out of here!”</p>
	<p>
		Theo backed slowly across the
	field, then broke into a run.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Thanks, Dad!” he called
	out. He disappeared down the trail towards the valley.
	</p>
	<p>
		Rudy watched Theo go. He
	appreciated his son's interest. Goodness knew he had done his best to
	encourage it, to the extent it was safe. There was no sense letting
	the boy into things he wasn't ready for. Theo often complained that
	Rudy was too protective, his rules were too strict. But Theo had no
	idea how lucky he was. It hadn't been this way for Rudy when he was a
	boy. His father Pythagoras Promovendis had been far less inclusive of
	Rudy in his work than Rudy was of Theo.</p>
	<p>
		Sitting in the barley
	surrounded by the wreckage of his latest experiment, Rudy thought
	back to a day that had always remained vivid in his mind. It was
	close to 30 years ago now, not too long before the disaster had
	happened. He had been about the age Theo was now.
	</p>
	<p>
		In his memory, Rudy leaped up
	and down in the thick mud, trying to peer into the dirty windows of
	his father's work shack. The shack had already sunk over a foot into
	the mud. Through the window, Rudy caught glimpses of large sheets of
	blueprints strewn across his father's work bench.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Father!” Rudy called.
	</p>
	<p>
		 Pythagoras' face appeared for
	a moment in the window, then disappeared.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Father!” Rudy shouted
	again.</p>
	<p>
		The door of the shack opened a
	crack, pushing into the deep mud that embedded the shack.  His
	father's lean, hawkish face peered through the crack, his eyes
	darting from side to side.</p>
	<p>
		“Shh!” he hissed. “What
	is it, boy?”</p>
	<p>
		“Can I help? Mother said you
	might let me help. I did all my chores!”</p>
	<p>
		Pythagoras cast a glance up at
	the family house.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Have you done the laundry?”
	he said.</p>
	<p>
		“Yes!” said Rudy.</p>
	<p>
		“Dishes?” Pythagoras
	asked.</p>
	<p>
		“Yes!”</p>
	<p>
		“What about the weeds, and
	the... the cleaning. Are the floors clean?” pressed Pythagoras.</p>
	<p>
		“Yes!” Rudy said, an edge
	of desperation in his voice. “I did all that. Can I help?”</p>
	<p>
		“No,” said Pythagoras. 	</p>
	<p>
		“But father!” cried Rudy.</p>
	<p>
		“The less you know about my
	work, the better off you are.”</p>
	<p>
		“But I can help!”
	protested Rudy.
	</p>
	<p>
		Pythagoras pushed his face
	into the crack in the door and fixed his son with a steely glare.
	</p>
	<p>
		“Listen good,” he said
	ominously. “There are all kinds of people in this world.”</p>
	<p>
		“So?” cried Rudy.</p>
	<p>
		“So no,” said Pythagoras.
	“Go help your mother.”</p>
	<p>
		With that, Pythagoras's face
	disappeared into the darkness and the door slammed shut. Rudy stared
	at the door as tears welled in his eyes.
	</p>
	<p>
		Recalling the experience now,
	it was hard to keep the tears from welling up again. He had done his
	best to ensure that his own son would never feel that sting of
	exclusion. But lately he wondered whether it was for the best to let
	Theo so close to the dangers of his work.</p>
	<p>
		Rudy collected the strewn
	contents of his pack and prepared to drag the huge machine back up
	the trail.</p>
	<p>
		The machine was even heavier
	without Theo's help. Inch by inch, Rudy strained to pull it up the
	hill. He rested frequently under the darkening tunnel of trees that
	lined the road.
	</p>
	<p>
	❉</p>
	<p>
		In the purple dusk, as
	fireworks popped in the distance, a swarm of bog aphids and gnats had
	re-convened over a corner of the field. Beneath the cloud of bugs lay
	the motionless crow.
	</p>
	<p>
		The insects hung for several
	moments in the air, then descended in a tight funnel shape towards
	the dead black body of the bird. When the tip of the funnel reached
	the crow, the swarm rushed toward the crow at once and enveloped it.
	Aphids streamed into its mouth and gnats flew into and out of its
	nostrils.</p>
	<p>
		The crow's body rocked
	slightly and its head appeared to twitch, nudged and tugged by the
	mass of tiny insects. A mass of aphids collected on its closed eye
	and pushed the eyelid open.
	</p>
	<p>
		Suddenly, with a choking gasp,
	the crow gave a single violent flap of its wings. In a moment, the
	bugs dispersed and were gone.
	</p>
	<p>
		Trudging up the path, Rudy
	heard the full-throated cry of a crow overhead. He looked up, but the
	black bird's shape was invisible among the evening trees.
	</p>


</body>
</html>
